RFC0011 - Module System (#112)
Draco-lang/Language-suggestions: Specification/ModuleSystem.md

# Module System
This document defines how code is split to multiple files, how symbols are exported and imported and how reusable units of code are defined.  
## Packages and modules
A package is a reusable unit of code that consists of modules. In C# terminology, a package is equivalent to a project. Modules are building blocks of packages, they provide or hide pieces of functionality that make up the package. A module is any folder in a package. Every file in such folder contributes to the module. Modules can also be defined in code using the syntax `module <module name> <code block>`.

> If folder declared declared in package is not declared in the top level package folder, it is considered a submodule of whatever folder is its parent folder. Modules defined in code will become submodules of the module they were declared in.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a folder declared in package is not declared in the top level package folder, it is considered a submodule of whatever folder is its parent folder. Modules defined in code will become submodules of the module they were declared in.   
```

Contents of a module (submodules are also contents of a module) can be accessed with the syntax `<module name>.<name of the language element to access>`.
## Visibility of language elements
Langue elements can have three types of visibility in draco: `public`, `internal` and `private`.
Any language element marked as `public` will be visible outside of the package. Language elements marked as `internal` will be visible everywhere inside one package. Language elements marked as `private` will be visible only inside the module they were declared in. The default visibilty is `private`. The syntax for marking language elements visibility is `<type of visibility> <language element declaration>`.

Example of symbol visibility:
```c#
// Marking function as public
public func abs(x: int32): int32 = if(x > 0) x else -x;

// Marking member as internal
internal val PI = 3.1415;
```
## Importing symbols

> Importing symbols into local scope can be done with the `import` statement. The import statement has the syntax `import <path to module | path to module member>`. You can import module, in that case you bring every member of that module into scope, or you can also import single module member, than only the member is brought to scope. If only single module member is imported, you can alias it with the syntax `import <alias name> = <path to module member>`, in such case the module member will be useable by its new name.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Importing symbols into local scope can be done with the `import` statement. The import statement has the syntax `import <path to module | path to module member>`. You can import a module, in which case you bring every member of that module into scope, or you can also import single module member, then only that member is brought into scope. If only a single module member is imported, you can alias it with the syntax `import <alias name> = <path to module member>`, in such case the module member will be usable by its new name. 
```

# Module System
This document defines how code is split to multiple files, how symbols are exported and imported and how reusable units of code are defined.  
## Packages and modules
A package is a reusable unit of code that consists of modules. In C# terminology, a package is equivalent to a project. Modules are building blocks of packages, they provide or hide pieces of functionality that make up the package.

> A module is any folder in a package. Every file in such folder contributes to the module. Modules can also be defined in code using the syntax `module <module name> <code block>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A module is a collection of source files within a folder. Every source file in the folder contributes to the module. Modules can also be defined in code using the syntax `module <module name> <code block>`.
```

Reviewer: An example right after demonstrating the inline modules would be nice

> If a folder declared in package is not declared in the top level package folder, it is considered a submodule of whatever folder is its parent folder. Modules defined in code will become submodules of the module they were declared in.

Reviewer: Let's rephrase this, a bit too complex for what it explains.
> If a module is within another module (the folder is within another folder), it is considered a submodule of that parent module. Modules defined in code will become submodules of the module they were declared in.

> Contents of a module (submodules are also contents of a module) can be accessed with the syntax `<module name>.<name of the language element to access>`.

Reviewer: We don't mention fully-qualified names or paths anyhow.

> A package is defined by file `<package name>.dracoproj`, which is a msbuild project file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A package is defined by the projectfile `<package name>.dracoproj`, which is an MSBuild project file with a special extension.
```

## Visibility of language elements

> Langue elements can have three types of visibility in draco: `public`, `internal` and `private`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Language elements can have three types of visibility in Draco: `public`, `internal` and `private`.
```

> Any language element marked as `public` will be visible outside of the package. Language elements marked as `internal` will be visible everywhere inside one package. Language elements not marked by any visibility modifier will be considered private and will be visible only inside the module they were declared in. The syntax for marking language elements visibility is `<type of visibility> <language element declaration>`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any language element marked as `public` will be visible outside of the package, meaning that consumer code can reference it. Language elements marked as `internal` will be visible everywhere inside the defining package. Language elements not marked by any visibility modifier will be considered private and will be visible only inside the module they were declared in. The syntax for marking language elements visibility is `<type of visibility> <language element declaration>`.  
```

Reviewer: > Language elements not marked by any visibility modifier will be considered private and will be visible only inside the module they were declared in.

What about submodules?

> Example of visibility:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example of visibility modifiers:
```

```c#
// Marking function as public
public func abs(x: int32): int32 = if(x > 0) x else -x;

// Member is not marked by any visibility, it is private
val PI = 3.1415;

// Marking function as internal

> internal func CircleCircumference(r: int32) = 2 * PI * r;

Reviewer: No return type specified

```
## Importing language elements

> Importing language elements into local scope can be done with the `import` statement. The import statement can have two forms. You can either import a module, such import statement has the syntax `import <path to module>`. In this case, the import statement brings every member of that module into scope. You can also import a single module member while aliasing that member, then only that member is brought into the scope and can be used under its aliased name. The syntax for this import is `import <alias name> = <path to module member>`. Import statements must always be on the top of a scope. If an import in a parent scope imports a language element with the same name as an import in a child scope, the element imported in the child scope will be used.

Reviewer: Let's mention how these correspond to the C# versions please

Example of importing:
```js
// Import every member of the module System.Console
import System.Console;
// Import single type, this is different than the above example, because this type is not static, which means it is not a module
import Stream = System.IO.Stream;
// Import WriteLine from System.Console and alias it as println
import println = System.Console.WriteLine;

func main(){

>   // Full name here would be System.Console.Writeline

Reviewer: Maybe don't use "Full name here would be...", but say "References <fully qualified name>"

  WriteLine();

  // Child scope
  {
    // Foo.Console also defines WriteLine
    import Foo.Console;

    // Full name here would be Foo.Console.WriteLine

>     WriteLine();

Reviewer: Good example of shadowing!

# Module System
This document defines how code is split to multiple files, how symbols are exported and imported and how reusable units of code are defined.  

> ## Packages and modules

Reviewer: What about the root module?

A package is a reusable unit of code that consists of modules. In C# terminology, a package is equivalent to a project. Modules are building blocks of packages, they provide or hide pieces of functionality that make up the package.
A module is a collection of source files within a folder. Every source file in the folder contributes to the module. Modules can also be defined in code using the syntax `module <module name> <code block>`.
If a module is within another module (the folder is within another folder), it is considered a submodule of that parent module. Modules defined in code will become submodules of the module they were declared in.
Contents of a module (submodules are also contents of a module) can be accessed with the syntax `<module name>.<name of the language element to access>`.
A package is defined by the projectfile `<package name>.dracoproj`, which is an MSBuild project file with a special extension.

## Visibility of language elements
Language elements can have three types of visibility in Draco: `public`, `internal` and `private`.

> Any language element marked as `public` will be visible outside of the package, meaning that consumer code can reference it. Language elements marked as `internal` will be visible everywhere inside the defining package. Language elements not marked by any visibility modifier will be considered private and will be visible only inside the module they were declared in. The syntax for marking the visibility of language elements is `<type of visibility> <language element declaration>`. A module will be visible outside of a package if it defines at least one public member. If the module doesn't define any public members, it will be only visible in the package it was declared in.  

Reviewer: What about submodules, can they access private members of parent modules?

Example of importing:
```js
// Import every member of the module System
// C# equivalent of this would be using System;
import System;
// Import every member of the module System.Console
// C# equivalent of this would be using static System.Console;
import System.Console;
// Import single type, this is different than the above example, because this type is not static, which means it is not a module
// C# equivalent of this would be using Stream = System.IO.Stream;
import Stream = System.IO.Stream;
// Import WriteLine from System.Console and alias it as println
// C# doesn't allow importing free functions
import println = System.Console.WriteLine;

func main(){
  // References System.Console.Writeline
  WriteLine();

  // Child scope
  {
    // Foo.Console also defines WriteLine
    import Foo.Console;

    // References Foo.Console.WriteLine

>     WriteLine();

Reviewer: An interesting case would be using `println` here, as that would still reference `System.Console.WriteLine`
